# PythonDSandA
What this is: I am currently learning how to implement basic Data Structures and Algorithms. It's hard to find proper help online so I'm posting my commented code here along with visualizations of how some of the more abstract methods work. I just started about a week ago so I'll be updating all the files here as I learn more.

(Where?):Source/inspiration for most of the code written: interactivepython.org . Check that website out for more information and to learn from someone who knows what he's talking about way more than I do.
  
Why: I'm learning to implement all of these so I can answer the questions in the 'Cracking the Coding Interview 6th edition' book. Anyone who has the money should buy it. It's been really helpful so far and is written concisely and to the point. IF YOU DONT HAVE MONEY FOR THE BOOK: checkout this repository, interactivepython.org, and learn all this. Then head over to /r/dailyprogrammer, /r/learnpython, /r/learnprogramming, or any of the many coding-question-website links they have on those subreddits. Actually, head over to those subreddits and website now. For me, what turns me off of learning anything is not seeing the applications/reason for learning. OH! I'll post links to applications of each of the Data Structures and Algorithms within the python notebooks whenever I can!

If you have any questions about literally anything, contact me and I'll hit you back with an answer. Mostly doing this because I refuse to pay to learn these things and I realize how frustrating it is to learn this all on your own with no proper prior coding experience. I'll  update the comments in my code to reflect any questions I get. As of writing this (1/7/17), I don't know too much about GitHub so it might take me a while to format everything properly. Suggestions on anything here are always appreciated, be as critical as you can.

Made using: 
Python 3.6  : 3.x is out, it's ready, just use it. I haven't seen any good reason to use Python 2.x so far. 
Anaconda --> Jupyter Notebook (IDE)  Easy to download, easy to use. Fun UI. Haven't seen a reason to use anything else yet.

Notes to beginners(as in you haven't learned Data Structures and Algorithms yet):
If python is your first and only programming language, my suggestion is to stop using python for a sec. Go learn the basics of C++. It's extremely annoying to learn, but if you're already at this point in python it won't be hard. You'll be able to understand how most languages work much more easily and how to handle your code a bit better. Where to learn: MIT's Open Courseware and several other university websites offer free lectures/materials online. OR, if you're into reading a textbook on your own, go find a copy of the 'Big C++' and learn chapters 4-8 (Classes, Vectors and Arrays, Pointers, and Inhertiance). Do the some of the problems per chapter, then come back. It's a hassle, but the intuition I got from learning chapter 1-8 of Big C++ helped me learn to program (not just Python, but also some Stata and dabbling in R) way faster.
